Well, the quality we're talking about this morning is modesty.
And one of the most powerful reasons for displaying modesty is that it benefits others.
Why can we say that?
That one of the most powerful reasons for displaying modesty is that it benefits others.
It's because of Jesus' words here in the book of Matthew, chapter 22, and let's read together
verse 39.
Matthew 22, of course, in verse 37, Jesus helps us to see that the greatest commandment
of the law is to love Jehovah.
And without a doubt, a modest course pleases Jehovah.
But in verse 39, the second greatest commandment is this.
You must love your neighbor as yourself.
Well this too becomes a very powerful reason to cultivate and display this, this quality
of modesty.
And interestingly, we see this aspect that is modesty's effect on others in the original
language of the text.
And the watchtower said this, first of all, at defined modesty it said, in the Bible,
modesty refers to having a proper estimate of ourselves and an awareness of our limitations.
But then it went on to say, in the original language of the text, the emphasis seems
to be on how that awareness should affect our behavior toward others.
So then with that in mind, let's look at three examples that highlight how modesty
benefits others.
And all three of our examples focus on giving advice to others, which is what our text
comments also talk about.
For each example, we'll examine the situation.
We'll decide what the modest course is in that situation.
But then how does that modest course benefit others?
So the first situation, very simply, a friend comes to us for advice.
They're facing some challenge, some trial, or they're facing a complicated decision
that they have to make, and they just want some input, some advice, and so they come
to us.
Well, what is the modest course in this situation?
Well, it's our text for today, isn't it?
Most Corinthians 4.6 do not go beyond the things that are written.
The study note on that scripture says this.
This rule implies that God's servants are not to teach anything that goes beyond the
laws and principles expressed in God's inspired word end quote.
So then the modest course is to give our friend advice that is based on Bible principles.
In other words, we defer to Jehovah in matters of counsel and guidance.
Well, how does that modest course benefit our friend?
Well, first of all, it benefits them because honestly, our opinion could be wrong, isn't
that true?
Whereas God's word is perfect, and Jehovah's counsel is always beneficial.
But modesty also helps them because it helps us to be a good listener.
We will modestly recognize that we need to know the facts.
We need to understand the situation in its entirety as much as possible before we can
identify which Bible principles our friend may wish to consider before they make their
decision.
So then in the end, modesty helps us because our counsel will be Bible-based and it will
more closely hit the target of what they need.
Situation number two, how do things change depending on the subject matter of the advice
being sought?
So in this scenario, our friend is confiding in us a health problem that they're facing.
And it's maybe a medical treatment that they are trying to decide on and they're looking
for some input.
What's the modest course in this situation?
Well we genuinely feel for our friend and we want to help them in any way that we can.
But here too, the principle, the underlying principle of 1 Corinthians 4, 6, applies,
that is not going beyond the limits of our authority.
Well, what is our authority in this kind of a situation regarding health matters?
The watchtower said, when faced with a health problem, each adult Christian must carry
his own load of responsibility in choosing treatment.
Well then, keeping that in mind, modesty will help us to think carefully before we offer
our own medical advice or before we discourage them from taking a prescribed treatment.
But what can we do to help them?
Well certainly we can listen empathetically.
We can offer them our sincere heartfelt sympathy and comfort.
We can think about what practical help we can give them and we can reassure them of
our support for whatever decision they should choose to make.
And how does that modest course benefit them?
Well it dignifies them in that it allows them the right to make the decision for themselves.
It also protects them from any undesirable consequences in the event that our medical
advice might not be the right one in their case.
But it also provides them the love and the reassurance and the support that they need
at that challenging time.
Situation number three, how do things change depending on who needs the assistance?
So in this scenario and elder, maybe a work overseer becomes aware that a married sister
on his crew or in his department is in facing some challenge and maybe is in need of assistance.
What is the modest course in this situation?
As we mentioned earlier, modesty includes being aware of our limitations, including being
aware of the limitations of our authority.
So what is our authority here?
It's interesting that recently the Washtar has helped us to see that there's a difference
between the authority Jehovah gives elders and that which he gives husbands.
Compare with me, please, these two scriptures.
The first one is in 1 Peter 5 in verse two.
So speaking about the authority that Jehovah gives to shepherds, to elders, 1 Peter 5
2 says, shepherd the flock of God under your care, serving as overseers.
With that in mind, as we turn to Ephesians chapter 5, and let's see what authority Jehovah
gives to husbands in verse 23, Ephesians 5 23 says because a husband is head of his wife,
just as the Christ is head of the congregation, he being a savior of this body.
So comparing these two, we can see Jehovah for elders, they are shepherds, whereas the
husband is the head of his wife.
Well how does this apply then?
How does this help our elder in our scenario?
Well, his knowing the difference between the authority given here helps him to not overstep
his authority as an overseer and as an elder.
Of course, each situation is different, but depending on the situation, if this truly
is a personal matter, he may very well modestly refrain from giving advice at all.
He may not get involved at all, he may recognize this feels like husband territory and I'm
going to allow her to work with her husband in this matter.
And how does that benefit the couple?
Well it preserves her husband's authority, doesn't it?
It also deepens her respect for her husband as he is the one that can help to care for
and help her in this situation.
It keeps the strength of their marriage intact and their view of the sanctity of marriage.
And it also avoids even an inkling of an emotional attachment forming between two people who
are not married.
Well these are just a few examples that highlight how our displaying modesty benefits others.
And that is one of the most powerful motivations and reasons for displaying modesty.
And sometimes considering how modesty benefits others gives us clarity of mind on what the
modus course is and gives us the motivation to take that course.
And as we considered, this is not just an alternate way of looking at it.
This is not just a novel approach to showing modesty, but rather it is based on the second
greatest commandment of the law, that is to love our neighbor as ourselves.
Well, dear friends, we thank you for your sincere efforts to show modesty and the good
example that you set in this regard.
May Jehovah continue to bless your efforts to cultivate this important quality
and thereby help you to be a true gift to your brothers and sisters.